5th of May 1978 and the beginning of a session with Bartholomew in Socorro, New Mexico.
Good evening.
You didn't count, you were waiting for the count.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Good evening.
Good evening, Bartholomew.
We're pleased that you're here with us this evening.
We have long awaited this opportunity to speak with you
and are very pleased that you chose to be with us tonight.
Well, thank you. It is a great pleasure to be here.
We sense...
We sense some deep questioning in you, sir, and we'll proceed whenever you are ready.
Very good. I do have a number I would like to ask, the first of which would be...
Would you come up closer to the microphone so that it can be on the tape?
Yes. Could you speak on the question of the purpose and the role of the Christ and the Christ's teachings
teachings in God's plan for mankind and his evolution.
Well, there is so much of course, but we shall try to respond to what we sense are your deep
questions. Would you exchange places with this gentleman?
Certainly.
It works best if I can speak in your direction.
We will, the question is vast, so we will limit it to what we feel are the deep quests within your
consciousness if that is all right with you.
Excellent.
First it is, I'm sure, very obvious to you as you look back upon
your life that although you have tried to deviate
at one time or another into other streams
(snow crunching)
(clippers whirring)
I think that'll be all right.
Do we proceed?
Yes. Sorry.
The color of the flow is blue.
Each of the great forces
that you call
religious institutions,
religious sciences,
whatever, carry a color.
And in the case of the Christ
flow, it is a very deep
and vibrant blue.
This is an interesting
for you in that I would suspect that you have had experiences throughout your
lifetime that may harmonize with this color. Is this a true statement? This is
very true. So all these years as you pull yourself to and fro in an attempt to
find the center of your quest, you go off and then you return once again.
and this is a wise selection in your case, sir, because the way of the Christ is your way.
And, now this is not true, of course, of "Say this, gentlemen, on my right."
But, so all of this is mostly directed at you this evening, this section of the table.
The place of the Christ in the world, as far as a religious force, at this time, the Christ
is taking the first place, the greatest place, the strongest place, because it is the current
that is most needed at this time.
The current of the Christ represents the current of the greatest love.
I am speaking of the deepest forces of love that are manifest within the universe.
And it is the Christ flow that most represents this particular strain.
Let us take, for example, the strain of the Buddha.
Now the Buddha represents a different flow, it is a different force.
The earth is in a cyclical movement and at this time the cyclical movement is toward
the deep need for greater love.
Do you understand?
And this is why this particular force, this particular vehicle is being used.
This explains by the way the great upsurgence of the Christian, what they call the Christian
Church, the charismatic movements that are sweeping not only the United States but various
parts of Europe.
It is because the need is so desperately great at this time for the human vehicle to develop
the, what we would call, the heart situation.
And therefore, the reason that the Christ moves into the forefront at this time is that
this is the greatest strength of his teaching.
What particular strain of this would you like to deal with?
The subject is vast.
Well I was thinking in terms of the Christ teaching that no one comes to the Father except
by me.
Could you interpret that?
Alright, now, when the historic Christ spoke those words, he was speaking from a reality
of the moment to the people that were gathered around him, and it was a literal truth.
The hope of what was to become their salvation depended entirely on him, on his words, on
what he would say, literally their salvation depended upon that. It is equally true to
say that millions of people throughout the world who are incarnate now and have been in
the past and will be in the future, their only means of salvation are through his words.
The reason is, sir, that within each entity incarnate there is a certain tuning quality,
a certain responsiveness that responds to a certain vibration. And when he said, "No one
comes to the Father except by me," whoever hears those words and feels a resounding vibration
within their being, that is the absolute and valid truth for that person.
Now it may be that another person standing next to this individual hears the same phrase
and it falls as if on deaf ears.
The reason is that there is within that other entity
another vibrational force that speaks equally,
deeply and purposefully to him.
What must be stressed over and over again
is that there is no conflict between these two forces.
They stem from the same river
and flow into different areas.
And this is all to the joy of mankind
because all of you, you know, you're not all the same
in the sense of the way that you have chosen to manifest.
And some are very much drawn to one aspect
and certain ones to others.
It would be a very limited and unfair God
who would ask that all of his creation
respond to only one kind of a vibration
because there are at least seven main ones,
some of which you may be interested to know
have not yet come into the earth form.
In other words, the earth does not really know
of some of them that are here at the time.
So the thing that we on our side of the light
are so interested in impressing
and something that I think, sir, you have been concerned with,
is when you hear the words, "No one comes to the Father except by me,"
does this then mean that, say, the Mohammedans and so forth,
are they then in some way in jeopardy of salvation?
The answer is no.
But the answer is equally true, that for you, for you so much,
this is a very vital truth and you should follow it.
until the end of your day. The way to the light for you is through Christ. And you will reach
it sir, in case you have any deep questions about yourself, I would like to clear them
up at this time. Your past has been extremely interesting. Are you interested in this?
I certainly am.
Your past has been extremely interesting.
You have had certain lifetimes of incredible impetus toward the awareness of the One.
And then, in the following lifetime, it's almost as if you feel the backlash of that
tremendous push that you've made.
And it's been very erratic, if you follow me.
lifetime you will go so far as to have in one time been a martyred saint. I don't know
if you're aware of that, but this is a true part of your past. Were you aware of that?
I hadn't been told this. Well, it's true and you should accept it as true. But then in the
following life, sir, it was a backlash back into, again, into a lower form of understanding.
And so your incarnative patterns have been erratic.
Now the call at this time in your life is this lifetime you are being called to cease this
erratic behavior and to merge every moment of your life in a very calm and deliberate
movement toward what you can achieve, which is if you wish for it this lifetime, sir,
you are capable of total awareness of the One.
Now I say that to very few, but I say it to you because we feel you are very much in need
of knowing this, that you have self-doubt in this area that has kept you from trusting
into your own abilities and you tend, if we may make only one small criticism of you,
you tend to listen to other people too much.
And this is not for you, sir.
You have embodied within you, you see, you have a brilliant mind, all right?
That is one gift.
And we would ask that you meditate on that, because your brilliant mind has been given
to you for a reason. You know, it is not a matter of chance. It is a matter of design.
And so we would ask you to meditate in the ensuing months on how you can best use this
incredible mind that you have. Now, that is one part of your being, and it has in the
past overshadowed to a great extent the other parts of your being, which we would like to
see brought into harmony with that. We're speaking particularly of the quality of heart. Your
heart, sir, is not trusting. Do you understand me when I say that?
I certainly do.
Alright. Now, you've been given a woman who loves you. Now, she is not a very clear vehicle
of this love at times because of her own fears. But it's interesting that the two of you would
have found each other because you both are of untrusting heart.
And so what you are called on to do is to both of you in your own way overcome this untrusting
heart and give yourselves as totally as you can to each other in love.
Because it is through this closeness that the two of you have that you will begin to
trust into that movement that is within you so strongly.
I would like to touch, with your permission, on your situation of your job.
I'm very interested in this.
There is a jeopardy there for you.
Now we're not speaking in terms of your life.
Your life is not in jeopardy at all.
will not be, if there is any disharmony, it will not be a part of your karmic burden.
There may be such things happening when you're there, they may not be, but that is not the
point.
The jeopardy that we speak of, it has to do with you in your development as a child of
God.
The destiny that is held for you is far vaster than what you are allowing yourself to manifest.
You have had in your younger years a very deep feeling of your own special destiny.
Is this true?
This is true.
But we would venture to say that you have somehow moved away from this.
Is this true?
This is also true.
All right.
Now, we would ask you to somehow use all of the faculties of incredible mind and beautiful
heart to come together and find your place.
Your place is very helpful where you are now.
understand that if one were to talk in terms of credits in the karmic sense, do you understand
me? I do. You are, shall we say, accumulating a great many credits and that's all to the
good because as you know all of us in this room have certain debits in that sense and
and so this is all to the good.
But what we really have in mind for you
is something far different from what you're doing.
It is not chance that you have married the woman that you're married to
because between the two of you,
you have a very great combination of abilities
that can together help a great many people.
Now, neither of you have found this to be true yet.
yet, you haven't found your mutual niche. If I may use the example of the other two people
seated in the room with you tonight, they have found their karmic togetherness, you
see, and have worked in harmony as a pair and have, because of that doubling of their
abilities, brought a great many things to fruition that alone each of them could never
have achieved. Now the same kind of destiny is possible for you and your wife. It has
not manifested at all at this stage of your relationships. And it is, if I may be frank,
it is because of both of your doubting hearts. It is interesting for us on the other side
of the light to observe within each of you the tremendous love that each of you hold
each for the other, and yet to see the tremendous reluctance that each of you have for showing
this. Do you understand me? I certainly do. So, begin there if you would please, and have
the woman listen to this tape and maybe she'll wake up a little, because she is equally at
fault here. She has protected her tender heart because she has suffered, as you know, in
this time and she's tried very hard to learn from this, but part of the side effect of
the sadness that she has suffered at the hands of the other incident is that she wants to
protect herself from any further pain. She knows that this is not a valid way to live
her life and I am very confident, very confident indeed, that she will not continue with this
much longer. She is moving into a new area of awareness and we would ask your help in
this. She will move into a deeper area of spiritual awareness than she ever has before and she
will be afraid and she will be afraid because she will be in, she feels she will be in jeopardy
of losing her deep relationship with you.
She wants very much to serve you, but she must quit trying to serve you as a person and begin
to serve you as a part of the God force, which is a very different thing.
I keep asking this because I need to understand, am I making myself clear?
You certainly are.
All right.
Now, do you...
When this comes upon her, it will be extremely helpful for you to be supportive of her in
any way that you can.
And your heart will be attuned to know what it is that she needs, and we feel sure that
you will be able to respond in kind.
Together you must find your dual destiny because you were placed together for a very specific reason.
And we would be very grateful for our side of things if you would find your way together to fulfill it,
because it is important. You will both play an important part in things if you will allow yourselves to do so.
You will not stay in the same type of work that you're in for very much longer,
because as you become more and more attuned to what is going on within your deeper self,
other doors will open.
It is not necessary for us at this time to tell you anything,
because one of the things that we want from you
is to have your own inward looking process
develop to such a high tone
that you will not need this kind of assistance.
Do you see?
I understand.
And you have tremendous capabilities,
tremendous capabilities along this line,
far more than she does.
You have the intuitive quality to be able
to discern movements in the destiny.
If you will reflect back on your life with her,
you will realize that it is often you who says,
"I feel so-and-so will happen."
And indeed, if you've kept any record at all,
you'll see that this has proven to be true.
Now, her talents lie in a different area.
Her talents are much more in the heart quality.
as you know, your mind is more brilliant than hers is, and she knows this, and she finds
no quarrel with this.
We would ask that you would have no quarrel with her ability, which is a flowering of
the heart.
Because you see, together you will then be able to manifest the two qualities that are
so much needed in the next years of the planet.
Bartholomew, in the future, would it be permissible for us to check back with you to see whether
we indeed are pursuing the right path?
Are we in tune with the force and the plan for us?
I would be pleased to do that.
But I must also say again that the two of you joined together in power would be able to do
what is being done now with much more clarity, you see.
And when I say join together, I mean actually in the beginning a literal joining together,
say, of the hands in a mutual prayer or sitting side by side in mutual meditation.
Now, sir, we must touch on this and we do hope that you will take it in all good humor.
Are you... do you think you could do this?
I'm more than willing.
Alright.
You have in the past reached deep states of awareness through meditation.
And indeed, deep states through not very serious meditation.
Is this true?
This is true.
Now, the question then is, why have you given it up?
I guess I have been distrustful.
That I think is a very true statement of the quality of the situation.
Be aware that you are capable of doing and can do and must do whatever it is you wish
to do.
Please, there is no coercion here at all.
we would ask on behalf of the light that we all serve that you reconsider your position.
You have a quality that very few humans have, sir, and you are not using it.
Would you care to elaborate?
You have an attunement with the higher forces that is almost a natural one, and you tune
into that force with relative ease so that it is hard for you to understand the struggles
that other people go through, because it is such an easy thing for you.
But you will not be able to hear the voice that you seek to hear without some kind of
deep centering.
And the best way of deep centering is to have a decided time for a meditative situation.
It doesn't matter in your case how long it is really, because you see, you have a tremendous
power of concentration. It is a very compact concentration. That is part, a side effect
of a brilliant mind. A tremendous ability to concentrate, to give oneself totally. This
is something that your wife lacks, and this is her tremendous struggle. Now, this is a
tremendous ease for you, and you find no problem with it, but you don't use it. It's rather
ludicrous in a sense. She's struggling so hard for it, and you have it with such ease.
But in a sense, she's doing better in this than you are, you know?
Because she's trying harder at this stage of her life, you see.
And you have sort of given up on it, in a way.
And you go to words and you go to readings, and all of this is fine.
And we encourage, in fact, your new trend, your new movement with this new group that
were contemplating an affiliation with this church?
Yes.
This is to be encouraged in you. And all of the readings and so forth that go with it,
this is to be encouraged because there's nothing there, believe me sir, there's nothing there
that you will learn that you don't know, you see, because you have all of this data recorded
within you from lifetimes. I mean, you have lived some of that data. Some of that drama
has been your experience, but what it will serve to do is to motivate, to reactivate
those things within you that you have allowed to go fallow.
And you know, and this I speak to all of you in this room, when you cease to keep a body
form you will be accountable for what you have used, you know?
We've all been given, the four of you in this room have been given an incredible amount
of talent in the spiritual world.
And when the day comes that you stand there, you will be called to reckon.
You will be asked, "Have you used it?
Have you really used it?"
So in your case, sir, you've been given a tremendous amount, and we're counting on you to use it.
Other people see this in you.
Spiritual leaders of various strains have responded to you and understood you and wanted you to
become a part of their process because they have understood this.
But you've only gone so far and then you seem to hold back.
Is this a statement that is true?
It's very true.
We would ask that you reconsider this position, sir.
You would be able to help so many more people on such a vaster system.
You see, the things that are in line for you are much vaster than you really believe.
I'm speaking of really vast work.
Really vast work.
And we've given you the woman who can help you,
and we ask both of you to get on with it, if you would,
because there's a lot to be done, and it's not being done.
The way to begin is to begin to ask yourself deeply each day,
"What is my way? Show me the way. Teach me."
Learn, serve, to be taught, if you would.
You know, you're a great teacher,
but the greatest sign of a great teacher is
what kind of a student is he.
And if you can become as great a student as you are a teacher,
you will easily fulfill the functions that we have for you.
Do you have any other questions?
Well, you know Bartholomew, you have anticipated all of the questions on my list already.
I do have a small question and I think that you have in a way answered it already,
but I wonder if you could say something about the purpose that was served in my contracting this disease, this botulism, which obviously was planned.
Well first, first of all we would like to say
that given a very deep and difficult trial you have arisen victorious and we do salute you.
You have gained in the last three weeks more wisdom than you have in the last three years.
You have come again into harmony.
You have left the harmony, you know, for quite a few years now.
And in the last three weeks you have re-entered that role of one of the carriers of the light.
The experiences that you have had to go through were brutal in many ways.
But sir, it was the only thing that we could think of to do.
It was to startle you.
It was to startle the total being so that you would remember.
It is sort of an imagery perhaps would be being thrown into an icy lake, you see?
The awakening has to be that sudden because something that all of you on the earth plane
tend to forget is that there are things to be done.
There is much to be done and there is a lot of help needed.
And often time, and please understand, it was with your full agreement that this was
done.
Yes.
It was with your full agreement that the plunge into the lake was taken.
You see, you exist on various levels and the level on which your mind is now, for example,
all of you in this room, that is one level of existence and it is valid in its own way
with its own rules, its own rituals, its own values.
But as you are all aware, there are much higher areas.
Now you move, especially in the sleep state, you move to other areas.
It is in your movement, in these other areas of time, and then out of time, that this was
contracted between you and those those guides that work with you. And it was
discussed just as we are discussing now and the decision was made that this
would be undertaken. The outcome was never really crucial. There was never any
real question that you would die. But the question had to be raised what is life
for? It is only in times of extreme crisis that the questions come to the mind. What
is life for? What is my life for? Why am I here? And so it was agreed. And so it was.
Now, your teacher is different from your wife's teacher. By that I mean, I am not your teacher.
I love you.
But your contact is different from hers.
And this is good.
This is very good.
Because you see, your teacher has a whole different awareness that vibrates perfectly with your
awareness, just as mine vibrates perfectly with hers.
and therefore is best able to help you.
Your guide is so close to you that you would be astonished.
And he waits and he waits and he waits.
So we would ask you to please reconsider your life goals, please.
If you dedicate your heart and your mind to a divine union with the power that moves through
you constantly, if you will do that, sir, we will take care of the rest of it.
You know, you're a very conscientious man and much to be admired, you know?
But we'll take care of those things if you would only allow us to.
I am speaking of mortgages, payments, education, colleges, dental bills. Do you follow me?
I do.
We'll take care of those things for you. But we cannot begin to move as a dynamic force
in your life and begin these changes until you totally dedicate yourself to it. Because
Because once you do that, you will be for all intents and purposes lost to this world in
one sense.
And this is why we've given you the wife that we have, because she is one of the women who
would go along with this.
You know, she's not afraid of poverty.
She's not afraid of not having things.
She's not afraid of a lot of things.
The one thing she's afraid of is of losing your love.
Now, there are not many people who are like that, you know.
There are many people who care a great deal for not having poverty, for having the finest.
But she was carefully selected because she will be able to go along with anything that
comes along.
So please give her the respect that is due to this, and know that she works as a part
of our plan with you. Use each other in the holiest sense, you see? Use each other. You
both have tremendous strengths. They're different, but they are not opposite. They are not in
competition, they are complementary. So, would you do this? Would you give thought to this
at any rate? I certainly will. And see if out of this experience of a new baptism, you
know, the word baptism is extremely important, and especially in your life. It would be great
fun for you to someday be able to play back the lives of baptisms that you've
gone through, physical, the various baptisms and in various bodies of waters
and so forth. Is there something wrong? Can I? No, I'm just checking. And this last
experience that you've had with your illness is a new baptism. Have you
- Have you felt that at all? - Yes, I have.
Fine. Because that is what we hoped. It is a total cleansing.
Even to the point of your whole physical being.
You see, it's a cleanness, it's a newness, it's a new skin.
A new skin for new wine to be placed in.
I think that symbology will be meaningful to you.
It is meaningful.
So, in the name of the light, and in the name of the Christ, which we both serve,
we would ask that you reconsider in the next few months your deepest yearnings,
and see if you can tune in and become one with the knowledge that your God is waiting to present to you.
Have I contacted my guide before now?
Oh yes, oh yes you have.
But you see, your guide stands so close to the Christ.
You know, guides come in all shapes, forms, sizes, vibrations.
yours down so close that you must, you must be in a, how can I speak this, you must be
in a relatively pure state to be able to, to hear him. Do you understand?
I do.
There are many people that can meet guides, all kinds of guides,
but the purity of the person calls forth the purity of the guide.
And in your case, if you could work toward a greater purification,
whatever that means to you, we will not spell it out
as part of your learning process to find out what things are pure for you and what things
are not. But as you move toward that, it will be a dual movement. As you become more purified,
you will be able then to receive so much more. You know, this is the reason for all of these
tremendous rituals and purification rites and in the deep Indian tradition, all of the
renunciations and so forth. I'm speaking now to all of you in the room. This is because
it is true that the degree to which the body and mind are in a pure state, they reflect
a pure light vibration. I'm sure you're all aware of this. But this is the reason for
it. It's nothing mysterious. The more pure your mind, the more absorbed your mind, in
In your case, sir, with the word, if you follow that meaning.
I do.
The more you are absorbed in the word, the purer you will become.
It will be almost an automatic thing.
We do not suggest that you run home and begin a great program of rigorous self-discipline.
That would be superfluous.
As you become one with the word, it will be almost as if the purification is done for
you.
I think you have already sensed a great deal of this in the last few weeks.
Is that true?
It's already begun to happen.
Right, and this is why we speak to it.
Allow this to continue to happen, will you?
Don't put such restrictions on yourself that you become rigid and antagonistic, you see.
Allow yourself the flow of wine, for example.
Wine is a lovely thing. Properly used wine is a lovely thing. And your beloved Christ,
he drank it, you know. The problem is, don't become so rigid in your disciplines that the
spontaneity goes out of your life. Your life will purify on its own as long as you continue
to submerge yourself in the word.
Yes.
And so, don't worry about it.
But once again, we would like to say two things to you.
One, you have vastly underestimated your abilities
and your role as a child of the light in this lifetime.
recall back to your early years and try and remember the stamp that was given so long
ago on your life. And we ask second that you do your utmost to use the gifts that you've
have been given, because very few have been called to this, sir, very few.
You have no idea the vastness of what is asked of you, of you.
But now through meditation and with meditating on my guide I will begin to learn more specifically
what is expected of me. Is this correct?
Once you turn your mind and heart over to Christ,
your life will totally change
and you will only have to move through it.
You will have to make very little effort.
You see, the emphasis must be
on merging with the Word.
All else will follow, all else.
It will be as if out of nowhere someone approaches you
and asks if you will undertake something.
And you will do it.
I mean, you will know intuitively that it moves in harmony with the Word.
If I were speaking to this person, I would say that it moves in harmony with the Tao.
This is a meaningful phrase for you.
This is the Word for you.
Do you see? I do.
And it is such a simple thing if one turns one's entire mind and heart over to the Word,
which you can do.
And immerse yourself in that.
In the first place, you will move into joy.
Now joy has been a stranger to you for a long time, sir. Is that true?
Yeah, unfortunately.
And this does not need to be, because actually you were created as one of the joyful ones of God.
And as a child, you know, you were.
If you will think back on the early years, you were a sunny person.
Yes.
There was sun and joy.
And then life began to take its toll and you lost this.
But now is the time to move back into the sun.
You know, you also carry the sign of the sun.
And that's important.
As in Aries, you mean?
Well, the sun in you, each person has a different sign.
Not astrologically speaking, no. No, no.
Astrologically speaking, quite frankly, much of the astrology is myth.
Much of the astrology, now that we are on the subject,
Much of astrology is grossly misinterpreted and twisted and I would not put a great deal
of faith in it.
No, I'm speaking of, it's almost as if various people have stamps upon their being.
And with you it's the stamp of the sun.
And it is also the stamp of the Son of God, in a very meaningful Christian sense.
So you will have all things open to you, but unfortunately this can only come about when
you give up all things until you are Lord.
once you've done this, your path will be so obvious that you will shake your head in wonderment
that you didn't understand it sooner. You know? It will seem, "How did I miss this?"
Do you have any other questions?
Yes, I have more questions.
May the woman have a drink?
I wonder if you could speak a little bit about my wife's and my relationship with a man who
was our teacher or served in capacity like that for a number of years in Taos, New Mexico
and his name is Herman Rednick.
And we have wondered for some time now whether it was right for us to leave him and what
our relationship is with him.
Well, first of all, you are absolutely right to leave him.
You see, now, for the great majority of this gentleman's following, it is right that they stay with him.
But once again, without seeming to, what shall I say, give undue praise to you,
I must say again that you and your wife carry a different destiny than many people.
And the destiny that you two will be asked to carry out is vaster than that which he
is doing.
Because it will be based on a different level of vibration.
He is a beautiful son of God.
Beautiful son of God.
In fact, it must be stated, and this will come as a surprise to many people, he stands closer
to the light than does your other teacher, Swami Jyoti.
The reason being that Mr. Rednick has a great deal of humility, and it is through humility
that one comes to know God.
And although much of what he presents can be easily and is easily garbled or has been in
the past, his heart is in a very pure state. Much of it is garbled, much of it is garbled,
but the strain, the field, the force field through which he moves and which manifests
through him is very pure and very high strain. The problem is it gets garbled in the translation.
Now this is no longer as true as it was in the past.
And I believe that you should have no feelings of doubt or any other such feelings about leaving
him.
It was part of our movement in your life to remove you.
You know, it wasn't chance that we moved you out of that situation.
If it had been best for you, you would still be there.
You know?
It would be true.
So please trust us a little more.
Please trust that we know what is best for your destiny.
For example, the latest meeting you've had with the leader of this church group?
Yes.
This man will be important to you, more so to you than to your wife, but he will be important to you.
That's really all we'll need to say at this time.
But also, again, please do not be in dismay when you find yourself moving out of that situation.
Ah. I see.
Certain things are needed at certain times, and one needs to participate fully in that moment.
And this is a very special and wonderful time.
And it will come as a surprise to you, but in a few months you may be finding
that you and your wife are teaching him things that he needs to know, too.
You see, it is a reciprocal agreement you've made to come to greater understandings.
Do you see?
Yeah.
There's something on both sides.
There are certain things that he needs to know that you know.
And there are certain things that you need to know that he knows.
So there will be an exchange.
But please don't be overly concerned when it comes to it.
May I ask another question?
Certainly.
Of perhaps a more theoretical nature,
I have observed through the various experiences that have occurred to me,
and this recent one with Bajelzman being an example,
that the major events of my life,
the major things that have happened to me, for example,
my marriage with Mary Margaret, the several occupations I've had, my interest in philosophy
and what not, the child that was born to us, the other children. These things do not seem
to be my doing and they don't seem to be matters in which I've ultimately had very much say
in, although on a more mundane level I can see that I made certain choices and there
were certain results, I really have the impression that I don't have much control over what happens
to me.
Well, of course you don't.
And just be grateful that you don't.
Left to our own devices on the earth plane, as I remember so well from my experience when
I was there, left to our own devices on the earth plane, things would be chaotic indeed
if we were allowed to manifest all of our various and sundry desires,
can you imagine a universe founded on that basis?
Pandemonium.
You would not wish, you would not wish to live there.
You would not.
Now, I would like to say one thing, however, that might not be clear to you.
One moment, please.
I would like to try to get in touch with your guide.
Oh, excellent.
I'm not sure the vehicle of the woman can do it. We will have to try.
Justin.
Yes, Master.
It has been a long time.
Indeed.
Have you not missed me?
I have longed for you greatly.
Then why have you not come?
my own doubts and fears that have prevented this.
Listen.
Listen well.
It is my service to you
that those who come to me will be relieved of doubts and fears.
There is nothing upon the earth plane that will be able to ever remove your doubts and your fears.
If you wish peace, joy, light and wisdom, there is but one place that you can come for it.
I have taught you this in past times.
I come to remind you again.
I am waiting.
Master, can you give me specific instructions as to what you would want me to do at this
time in my life?
You have abandoned our connection.
You have ceased to strengthen it.
If you cease to strengthen it, it is as if it does not exist.
You will build a connection again through two ways.
You must begin an organized, deliberate time of meeting with me.
I will be there.
Will you be there?
Second,
you must learn to listen to yourself.
It was said earlier this evening, I will say again.
You listen to others too readily.
Your way is your way.
Created between us before Earth life began.
There is much to be done
and I'm waiting
Please
Don't keep me waiting much longer
Master is there any particular meditation that you wish me to use?
You have, through your lifetimes, many, many lifetimes, thrown yourself at the foot of
cross, embrace the cross, receive strength and renewal from the cross. Is this true?
This is true. Then I suggest that you continue this. Yes, Master. It is through your
Your surrender to the cross as you perceive it, that you will be renewed.
In time of doubt, throw yourself at the foot of the cross.
It has not failed you, and it will not fail you.
Christ is your way and I stand as his hand for you.
Please recall the plans that we made before time.
Please respond to what you know to be your destiny.
Go to the cross and it will always answer you.
Are there any other questions, Naroons?
Perhaps we'd better hold off until tomorrow.
I think the vehicle has been tired.
The last was harder on her. Yes. So, sir, have we finished? We have. Thank you Bartholomew.
And we thank you for bringing the other master to us this evening.
And now, returning the vehicle to normal consciousness,
with a feeling of accomplishment, a feeling of peace and serenity,
a gratefulness for the privilege of being such a useful vehicle for these forces
that are leading all of us.
And we'll count from five to one.
On the count of one, you will be back to normal consciousness,
feeling wonderful.
Five, four, three, two, one.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon, Marcella.
Have you questions, then?
Yes.
First, I would like to ask for some insight from your perspective on our relationship with our friend Alice.
Well, this is a difficult relationship in the terminology of the world that has come home to roost, I believe is the term used here.
Make no mistake, this is an old, old relationship. More in relationship to your wife really than
to yourself, but nevertheless in periphery part for you. I believe I will address most
of this to your wife since she does seem to be the focal point of this.
Do you want to sit over here?
If you don't mind, it's easy for me.
The first thing that we would really like to tell you is that
although the circumstances may be extremely difficult for you on the physical plane,
there is a debt here of tremendous importance.
Your connection with her is old, has not been very important in this lifetime at all,
but nevertheless carries a very strong impression from two lifetimes ago.
This is a carryover, of course, that is created out of your consciousness and also out of hers.
The reason that she is here in this particular relationship is to enable you to repay this
small debt that has been left over.
The main thing is to remember that it will not be of a very long-lasting nature.
She will not be in relationship to you in this way for very much longer, but make good use
of it if you would while she's here because there are some important lessons.
First of all, the most important thing that we would ask you to remember is that there
is nothing you can do for her.
Well, this is because of your awareness of freedom that can exist on the earth plane
within one's mind if one's mind has light in it.
You feel that you would like to in some way transfer this wisdom to her so that you may
help her.
One hates to give up on anyone, but please rest assured that experts have tried in this
field and have failed.
She has been given many, many opportunities to lighten her load, literally to lighten
it, to bring light to herself, to her load.
She has within her conscious memory in this lifetime many, many references of various
religions and text work that would, if she would become deeply concentrated on it, would
tremendously lighten her life.
But each time she has chosen to remain as she is.
So please, first and foremost, do not feel at all responsible for transforming any of
this.
And don't even make a terribly great effort to incorporate her into your group or to make
any special efforts along that line.
In a sense, we are dealing with a spoiled child who has for many years been allowed to be spoiled
and continues it in this later advanced years.
But don't be overly concerned.
And when you're there, our concern mostly
is that she will try to somehow bleed from you.
This is a term that we use.
I don't know how it translates through for you.
A bleeding of an energy field from one person to another is a very common
thing on the earth plane that is not always observed by the humans.
You mean, excuse me, that she would drain energy from me?
She, yes. Now this takes many forms. It's not just a matter of as you sit there that she will somehow remove it from you.
It usually will come in the terms of wanting you to do extra extraneous things for her.
her, in other words you using your energy for her rather than first her doing it herself.
Now there are things that other people performed for this woman she could do for herself and
it is a way of her becoming center stage you see and that's all a very childish response
to this situation and really if you can get it out of your mind that you're dealing with
an adult I think you will do better. Just look on her with a tender hearted concern as you
would of a child who has not yet reached the state of maturity. The sad thing of course
is that she will cross over and will still be in this state and then we'll have much
to do but that is really not your concern. So our worry is do not allow her to misuse
your energy and your time, because it is not as if you were helping her to be more positive.
Do what you feel is vital and is loving and is necessary, but please be well aware that
there is a childish resentment in her against any field of love for anyone else that you
may have. And this includes your husband. She resents the time and the ties that you have
built up with him. She will resent very much knowing, for example, when your family is
here, this will be another time that she will have difficulties. These patterns will, you
know, repeat themselves with anyone who is close to you. But just as you would not indulge
a child, as you would just be firm and loving, we would request that you consider this approach.
to her. One, you cannot really help her, so please don't make overly conscientious efforts
along that line. And two, really stand removed. There is on the earth plane at this time a
lot of children, a lot of children who are called, I cannot remember the term, I'm sorry,
who are called... I cannot remember the term. I'm sorry.
The way it is seen for us is they are overly active, much too tension ridden.
Hyperactive, do you mean?
Yes. Now, there are many more of them on the earth plane at this time than there ever have been.
And this is an interesting question that no one seems to have asked yet as to why.
Well, this woman should be considered as one of these.
She will make excessive demands, she will be very arbitrary,
she will be very full of temper and tantrums in a sense.
And just treat it as you would one of these children.
Have you anything else you'd like to add?
Well, yes, just one more question.
You mentioned that I had a debt that I owe to her.
anything else, what type of a debt, or what I, anything else which I need to do for her
even though I can't help her with her understanding, is there any other debt here that I need to?
Well it is a small matter in terms of, in the two lifetimes ago that I spoke of, there was
an opportunity when you were less developed two lifetimes ago, you become a great deal
in your two lifetimes. And two lifetimes ago, there was an opportunity for you to help her
in a physical manner, on the physical plane, simply in a physical way, and you turned on
it and didn't. And it's simply that. It's nothing terribly complicated or terribly...
It's certainly nothing other than that. It's simply you have the opportunity, you have
chosen to play it out at this time and to end your responsibility and to, as it were, clean
up the slate.
And that's all it is.
Well, I guess what I'm asking then is just the fact that I bring her in and out and check
and make sure that she's all right and that she has food or that she has her needs taken
care of.
That takes care of it.
That does take care of it.
Thank you so much.
There's no need and you must please stay free from any concern.
The moment she really wants help, there is so much crowding within her home that is waiting
to assist her.
So we simply wait for her choice.
We have been considering starting what we might call a core group from some of those
who have been with us in our quest group for a period of time,
going into some of the deeper truths that are less possible in a fluctuating group as a quest group.
And I would like to suggest that you might have for the functioning of this group
and perhaps individuals that might benefit the most from it.
Well, I think it's a wonderful idea and I'm so glad you picked it up because it is something
that we have been suggesting in various ways to you for quite a while and we're very pleased
that you have received this message because this is indeed what is needed because your
group does function on two levels and there are those who are very much ready for a deeper
group.
there is one problem you will have to face.
The ones who do not...
The problem that you will face is how to get the core group to function
without making the others feel in any way left out.
Now, I think that one of the ways to avoid this obvious problem
is if you announce that you are going to start a very serious study group
and that it will involve a degree of commitment
that certain ones of them will eliminate themselves automatically
Do you understand what I mean?
Some of them will say, well obviously I don't have the time, I don't have the interest and so forth
They will be eliminated
But then there will be others who will be drawn, who will not really be as committed as they
think they are, but for a social reason or for their own ego or for whatever reason will
then be drawn to come in.
I would not be overly concerned about them, because one of two things will happen.
They will either become very serious, which is of course what you would hope for, that
through the deeper studying that they are into, this will then bring forward the very
thing that you're trying for or they will find of themselves that they are either bored or
can't find the time or will weed themselves out of your situation.
Don't be overly concerned but I think your presentation must be very strong that this
is a disciplined or you see there will be a set text even so much as a beginning text.
You see what I'm saying? It must be structured in a very disciplined manner.
There should be required times of meditation for them,
whatever you choose to set up.
But there must be a commitment on their part prior to joining it.
If you could present it as sort of an experiment, if you will.
You know, that you would like to experiment on whether certain things are beneficial or not,
and you would like a certain core group to work with you.
Now if everyone in your group volunteers, then you will have a difficult problem
and you may have to drop the project. Do you see?
Yes.
If the night that you announce it, they all say,
"Fine, let us turn this night into that serious study,"
then you will have to think about that.
Then you may have to impose those rules right then
and say that this is a requirement
And that henceforth, anyone who comes on that particular night will have to fulfill these requirements. Do you see?
Well, we're making it an afternoon meeting for that reason, I think.
Well, my point is this. If on your night of your meeting you announce this, everyone will say, "Well, that's why we're here. That's why we're sitting here. That's just what we want."
Now this will then give you pause and you may then have to say, "All right, then let us turn this into a definite group meeting with definite structures."
You see, the rules that would have applied to your afternoon meeting will now have to be applied to your evening meeting and then you'll have to see how it works out.
You see, embryo things like this move in different directions and often surprise you.
You may get a lot of the people that come in the evening will simply not come anymore
because it's too intense, they don't get to talk enough, they have to do too much meditation,
things are too deep, you see, they will weep themselves out.
So one of two things can happen.
I think you would do best if you would keep an open mind and as you present it to say
we would like to have a very serious core group that will go into deeper areas of these subject
fields and I would appreciate it if those of you who are interested will contact me
at a later time, alright, because this then removes that spontaneous combustion of everyone
saying, "Oh, now, now, I want to, do you see, to say, please contact me at a later time."
That in itself will weed out a lot of the people who will not take the time to telephone, to
set up an appointment to come and see you.
And I think that you should both be very serious about that first meeting when they come, each
one comes on their own to you, to really work with them as to whether it is something they
really want.
In other words, to have a certain standard that you will set
and then ask them if this is really what they're looking for.
Sort of like you have an opening in a job, you know.
You have to present your desires and what you want in the group
and then see if that person who is sitting there will be able to fulfill that
or who even wants to.
You must be sober about it, is my meaning.
is my meaning. Otherwise, you are going to have the same pattern repeating. Only your
afternoon group will be filled with people who don't work and who don't want to go to
the supermarket, you see. So, much of it depends on your seriousness and please, as much as
you can, put aside all preconceived ideas of who should belong, because you may be surprised.
May I ask a question?
Sure.
Do I understand you correctly that when we announce this meeting and then when we set
a time that they come, we should have a program laid out, say, if we would work it out between
ourselves that we are going to study such and such a book or we are going to spend this
much time in meditation and that kind of thing, to have a program laid out that we present
to them?
What you mean?
My thought was this.
The evening comes and you announce that you are going to, do not say you are thinking
of, just that you are going to start a core group.
And anyone who is interested, please contact you by phone at a later date and you will
set up with each person individually a time when they come to your home and discuss with
you whether they would really want to participate in this.
Do you see?
And then each one will come at a separate time.
Not having four people come at once.
Because you see what you really want is first of all the person who cares enough to make
the phone call, the person who cares enough to set up the interview, the person who cares
enough to give thought to what you present.
Now when each one of them individually comes and speaks to you, that is when you should
say this is a rigorous program, this is what we have in mind, we are going to have these
as our certain criteria and we really want this to be a much more intense and serious
situation.
Now many of the egos will respond yes, yes, but in actuality many of them will probably
drop out because they will not be able to fool themselves about how rigorous they are
being and I think it would be important, very important that there be a knowledge in them
that if they do take this on that they will really give themselves to it for a certain
period of time as an experimental group.
But again I say you should be serious about this and the reason I say that is that you
tend to be a little tenuous about things like this, you see, you are a little tenuous.
And that is not really... that would make them tenuous.
Well, if I do the work, that's all right, but if I don't, well, then that's all right.
This kind of thing.
So if you could be a little more sober about that.
Yes. Thank you.
Well, the next point that I wanted to ask about...
Arnold Toynbee, the historian, made a statement recently that, as he saw,
one of the most important events in this era was the interpenetration of Christianity by Buddhism.
Do you have any comments on that?
The movement of the world, the movement of all of the forces on the earth plane, is toward a oneness.
The statement that he is making comes from his bias and should be understood as such.
But what is represented in the truth of all that kinds of statements is that the aim of those of us
that stand on the other side of the light is to pierce the mind of man with the knowledge
that the energy from which each varying religion derives its meaning comes from one source,
and any inner penetration is only successful to the extent that each of those two entities
come to see their deep similarity at source.
It would be a same truth in a statement to say that Mohammedanism and Christianity coming
together would be an important event, or the religion of Islam, whatever, because what
is really the thrust of our work is for all to see that there is one source, there is
one source, and any movement that can be made on the earth plane for peoples to blend their
varying dichotomies together into an awareness that there is only one source from which they
spring, that is a very monumental movement on the part of the human entity.
So there's not anything particularly special about Buddhism and Christianity meeting.
The only time that it will be at all special is if, as a result, if these two different
feelings, these two different strains can blend together to the point where they
recognize their one desire, their one basic source from which they spring, then
it will have been a successful experiment. It is by no means a completed fact.
By no means. And in fact there is jeopardy because it could set them up,
set many people up in opposition. You see, any kind of a force like this also
creates an opposite force and some of that opposite force is taking a great
deal of manifestation in in the Christian world where they are becoming, if I may
say, bullheaded about this, you see. They are... it's almost a backlash of
isolation. The Christian movement is becoming perhaps even more isolated in a
sense, a certain strain of it, as a result of what they consider to be the threat of
this Buddhist philosophy.
The basic important thing for all concerned from our perception, the basic thing that
they need to see is to drop all of the extraneous things that are not the same.
For example, the enlightened Buddhist or the enlightened Christian would tell you that
the understanding of Christ and the Buddha are very similar.
They are very similar.
There are certain areas in course where they differ because of many obvious things.
But the truth, the heart of both of these, be with truth.
And this is what is hoped.
This is what is hoped, you see.
Now, it may not be successful.
It may not work.
You implied one time that that was part of my function at this time, was to promote this
sort of thing.
Yes, this is still true.
And the reason that you are helpful in this regard is that you are able to also see the
truth that lies in Christianity.
You see, it is not very helpful to have a lot of people biased.
A lot of Christians saying that their way is the only way, and a lot of Buddhists, which
which they also say that their way is the only way,
we observe a very interesting thing.
The Hindu, for example, says that he is willing to honour other gods and so forth.
But in fact, if you wish to take each individual Hindu, you see,
and ask that particular Hindu his particular deep belief,
will tell you is that his particular deity is the strongest.
Do you see?
There really is very little...
A Buddhist for example is very willing to say yes, that Christianity can be accepted and
so forth, but if you take a particular Buddhist and speak to him clearly, what he says is
Buddha is the way.
Do you see what I'm saying?
So the theology of these various religions gives approval of other religions in the heart
of the person who is doing the worshipping, there is the feeling of superiority over other
religions.
And this is what we want so much, to see breaking down if we can.
And the reason that you will be helpful, you will be helpful to the extent that you can
see the Christ heart beating within the Buddhist heart and realizing that they both beat with
the same pulse because it is the pulse of God.
You see, they tend to forget that it is God that is the source from which all of these,
the Christ and the Buddha spring, you see, and the emphasis must go back to the source
And to the similarities instead of to the dissimilarities.
Yes.
There was... once you made a statement about reincarnation
and it seemed to me that you viewed the subject from a different perspective
from the usual one that we have here on this planet.
Would you help us with your insight on this process?
Well, incarnation, reincarnation, the whole subject is very muddled.
The reason for this is, of course, the ego's tremendous desire to feel that it will live on forever.
And therefore it tries very hard to keep its life pulse beating throughout eternity.
Therefore, you have many of the doctrines that say that one life follows another and
so forth.
What I am going to say will probably not please many of you, or maybe any of you, but what
is true is that your life, as each one of you individually live it, is not as separate from
other people's lives as your perception would lend you to think. For example, in the case
of you and your wife, you've spent many years together. You might perceive your life as
your own entity moving through certain steps, affected by your past actions.
This is a typical view of reincarnation.
Now that is partially true, but it is partially not true, because the fact is that if you
could perceive with the inner eye rather than just the eyes of the body, you would perceive
that the body of you and your wife, there is no difference.
If you could see this room now, and could see the perception of the movements, the undulating
movements of life that move between these four bodies, you would laugh at this idea
of your tremendous separateness, because you are not separate.
You see, a thought comes from that gentleman there, over this way, and its movement blends
with what is happening here and changes it.
There is not this tremendous wall that separates each one.
And this is why the great teachers have emphasized over and over and over again, when you begin
the movement toward awareness of the light, of the God-Self, of the Christ, of the Buddha,
whatever, when you begin this movement, the reason they asked you to be selective about
who you're with is because of this very phenomenon of which I'm speaking.
It is not some kind of a prudish, specialistic idea.
It is simply a truth that you blend.
And the ones that are closest to you in physical form are the ones you blend the easiest with.
This makes good sense to you, I hope.
So therefore, this is why we have a concern about this gentleman and his job, that he
is chosen.
Do you hear me, sir?
I certainly do.
Because he also is not separate from all of the movements that are happening out where
he is located.
And although we have done our best to protect him with a shield of light, there is only so
much that one can do when a person is placed in that environment.
The reason that he will move out of his location is simply that as he becomes more purified,
his consciousness becomes more and more attuned, it will be increasingly, instead of being
easier to be there, it will be more difficult to be there, because there will be this continual
mingling.
Do you see what I'm saying?
That their consciousness of those entities is on a lower plane at this time and is unfortunately
kept isolated because that's almost all they have and they draw onto them people who they
call guards whose consciousness are very similar.
Now the exceptions are in the teaching staff and various other pinpoints of light that
I perceive now in that building.
There are some pinpoints of light.
The teaching end of the building has this.
But if you understand me, sir, this is one of the reasons why you may find yourself moving
out of that.
I understand.
All right.
Now, back to the reincarnation.
It is very, very funny for us to view all of you feeling that your little life is so
special and so separate and so very independent from our perception.
Please be glad that this is not so, because if this were true, it would be extremely difficult
for you to transcend, extremely, because you see, if you were independent one from another,
you would also be independent from the source of the good ones, from the source of the great
ones that stand there, you see. You cannot be isolated only from other people and also
then be open to the vast wisdom of the great ones that stand there, you see. So be grateful,
pleased that it's been set up in this manner, it is much more wonderful if you can get your
minds just to turn a slight degree, so much more wonderful to realize that as the four
of these bodies sit in this room, that what they all are is just melding and merging and
doing in many ways a lovely rhythm, you see. And this is why the environment in which you
speaks importantly to you also.
You know, if you live in a very dark hovel,
there is something within that dark hovel
that can press upon you and you will become a part of that
because you see, you are a part of this.
You are a part of this.
You know there is nothing in this environment
that you are not in movement with.
From your perception, it's a lot of separate things.
In reality, it is movement.
And so again, sir, to you I would say that the environment that you are in presents this jeopardy
because they are confined into one limited area.
This makes the power of it stronger and there's less likelihood of it opening up.
Now the one fortunate thing is where it is placed.
I see it on a vast mesa.
Open, pretty open area, is that true?
Absolutely.
and this is very helpful because you see there is a movement, a harmony of land and sky and
cloud, wind moves through there and that does help to dissipate a lot of that and it is a
fortunate choice to place these institutions out in such areas and not say in the heart
of the city where they would be even more impacted with difficult mindsets because the land itself
vibrates to help them, you see.
There is a movement within the land because
there is no separation between the sand
and the sky and the sea
and the building and the beings, you see.
There is this movement, this constant exchange.
Have I made this clear for you?
This matter you said that
talked about successive lives, like in my wife's two lives, two lifetimes ago.
How does that relate to what you've been saying?
There is always a focal point in a sense that we would call in this case Louisa Aiken.
Alright, now Louisa Aiken perceives herself as the same person with various changes moving through one lifetime.
Now in reality, if she could see herself, she would realize that she is now a tremendous composite of a great many other people's images, movements, thought forms and so forth.
But there still is a center core around which some of these adhere.
Now the most important particles, the most important movements coalesce into the strongest particles.
Now I'm not speaking necessarily of the most positive or the most negative, I'm just saying
the strongest, it's as if there's a magnet named Louisa and certain forces are drawn
to her and some pass right through her because there is no responding magnetism of any kind
and they just become unimportant, they do not affect the core of the person.
And on the other hand, certain other things move through her that have a tremendous correlation
that have what you would call a hook-up.
It's almost a molecular, it is a light hook-up within her of correspondence, of vibration,
and they stay with her.
And so it is this essence that we speak of as Louisa.
Now to go, to say two lifetimes ago is very helpful for her at this moment in understanding
her situation with this woman. Alright? Now if I were to speak from another perception,
I would say there is a residue within this woman, within Louisa, that needs to be dissipated.
It will be dissipated through the giving of light to this manifestation outside herself
that she sees as this other woman. In this giving to her, the thing will be, the molecular
attention will be broken and this will drift away from her and no longer be a part of her.
Do you understand me?
I think so.
Would you like a clarification?
Well, I was thinking, I think it's the same thing, different people that we meet that
come through our lives and I have noticed this in myself, that some of them you just
automatically feel a great closeness and a love
and an enjoyment of being close to them and being with them.
There are other people, very nice people, very good people
that you don't feel that same attraction for.
And I have wondered about that. Is that what you're saying?
That they're on a different vibration?
That's true. They're not important for what you are a composite of at that moment.
For example, someone who in your terminology is not very spiritually evolved,
this is the term that you use,
what you really are saying is that the vibrational impact of that person
is pulling toward it like impact and it is on the same frequency level.
Now as that person allows themselves,
and this usually often has to happen in times of crises,
in times of crises we act in different ways.
we have the power at certain junctures of life
when a call is made, this is why crises are so important,
a crisis comes into the life of say this so-called lower evolved person,
the crisis breaks them into, jolts them into an asking.
Now they've asked, this is our chance, you see, because prior to that we cannot
in, you see, we cannot just keep hounding that person and hounding that person. Their free
will is what motivates what will happen to them. The crisis comes, the crack in the armor,
they call out in whatever way, "Oh my God, help me. If you will help me, I give you promises
to do this, this, this," so forth, you see. Many times we see this happen. Many times
they renege on them in later times, you see. All these promises are just forgotten. That
That is not the point. The point is that at that moment there is a crack. The vibrational
entity has said, "Help." The minute this cry comes, we then begin our movement. And we
move with them as long as they ask. And we would move with that entity until the day
the entity chose to move to the light. If they would hold that, you see, if they would
hold that call, but they don't. The crisis is resolved, they go back to their normal way
of existence, they're very grateful that they're still, you know, alright and whatever, or if
their son has been saved or, you know, many times we see this kind of thing. The promises
are forgotten, or if they're done, they're done as just a debt to be paid. But, but, with
that call something has happened, you see. Now, with that little wedge, they are then
able to have another light harmony move for them, you see. It's as if there's a crack
in the sphere and the light rushes into that sphere and it remains there. And it draws
to it, its own likeness now, which is light, you see. And eventually, as the years go on,
as lives go on, more crises happen as is the designated plan.
One of the main reasons for crises is to continually crack this sphere open more and more and more
and more until it is nothing but a ball of gold and white.
That is what we're really aiming for.
As each one of these crises enters in, it cracks it open more and more and each time
you see, more rushes in, you see, and that gives them a greater chance the next time
to call its like form because like calls like, you see. And much of the sphere may still
have, pressing on it, the negative similarities, but then we mustn't forget that that is also
here, this light. And what happens so often, you see a young child with a great many problems
and you think, "Poor thing, poor thing." From our perception, this is not true, you
see. It is often the opposite. Some of the strongest entities in the life cycle are those
whose childhoods were extremely difficult.
Because it's at these junctures that they intuitively call out
and bring into them, through their call, more of the light.
Do you see what I mean?
The child that has a perfect upbringing and has a lot of joy and a lot of love,
often time will find in its twenties, thirties, forties and so forth,
then they begin to have the cracks in the sphere.
Now this is something that's set up ahead of time
and doesn't need to concern us. It's set up in certain ways because of certain desires.
Some of the hardest incarnations are taken on because of the entity's deep desire to
get on with it, you know, to just drop much of this in one lifetime. And although things
on the outside look tremendously difficult, actually they've been wise in many ways. But
I still sense your question.
There was no Louisa Aiken two lifetimes ago.
There wasn't even someone who now we now call Louisa Aiken.
I mean the changes that have gone, that she has gone through, not only as an incarnate
being but in the freedom of the other planes in between her incarnations, there is no likeness
at all.
There is residue.
And this is what we speak to in this particular point.
There is a residue.
What the Buddhists call the skandhas I think it's called?
Yes, yes.
The bundle of whatever it was.
Yes, that is the kind of meaning that I'm seeking to convey.
Like the flame in the candle.
Right, now had this woman...
It doesn't have to be this particular woman from two lifetimes ago.
Had you been aware earlier in this lifetime,
time there were other instances, other connections with other people that could have removed
this from you. But the fact was that you at those particular junctures of your life you
were working on other things. You see there's only so many things that you can deal with
at once. And so we're always learning. And we move from one awareness to another you
see. And now here is this one coming at a very right time, right for you and right for
her, the circumstances are set, you have the time, you're not working on anything else
at the moment, this gives you the breathing space to work with it and deal with it and
remove it from your life. Do you see it? Did I answer your question?
I think so, yes.
Do I understand that you have been my teacher or do I have another teacher that is my own teacher?
I am not your primary teacher.
Yes. Would direct contact such as you had last night with your husband be of any help to me?
I think we should postpone that.
Okay.
The type of connection that we seek to make, and we can make that, is best done in the
hours of the night when the world, the place in the world where you exist is in a quieter
state.
It will be easier on the woman at that time.
the channels would be much easier for her in the evening.
She has a certain intuitive movement with her child, and in the evening when the child is
in bed and taken care of and she can remove this situation from her mind, she is much
freer to do this.
And we have to be careful of her too, because she, you know, she's a part of this whole
process and we are trying to be as understanding about her needs as possible.
But by all means, and please ask it again in an evening situation, and I feel quite sure
at this time that something of that nature can be done.
Yes, thank you.
Our friend Jim Koch has been...
May the woman have some water, too.
...has been a seeker for a long time.
No, that is not true.
He thinks he has very much sight.
he thinks he has very much say, and he wonders whether there would be any advice you could give him.
None of this that I say now should be repeated.
Okay.
Because he would not be able to hear it.
But the image of this gentleman is one of many, many layers of desires.
It's almost as if there is layers and layers of serpents of desires winding around the
pole of his center being.
Is the image clear to you?
And there are many, many of them around this center core.
And he is drawn to the quest because of the core of the being, which is of course the
same core as with the rest of mankind.
But in this particular case, he would do much better to spend his time forgetting, almost
putting aside the question of the spiritual quest, and concentrating on the human quest.
That he is not even a successful person in a functioning sense in the human material
world.
And there is no grounding.
he is not grounded in the sense that he is always in a state of flux.
I see this image as given of movement, constant movement, not movement upward or movement
downward but just kind of a dissipated movement in all directions, which is interpreted to
mean that his energies are simply going off in all directions and there is no... a person
who is that dissipated in the sense of energy and in the sense of desires.
He has many desires that he dissipates at will.
There is no steady, compact, concentrated impulse.
It is all dissipated.
But what we will say to him is this.
Are you going to play a tape for him?
I think it might be better if you simply give him a quote and then just tell him that the
tape is with a woman or whatever.
Because I do not feel that he needs to be chastised.
This problem is similar to many people. He's drawn to the spiritual world because he seeks
to avoid responsibility. And he feels that if you are a spiritual seeker, then you can
overlook many of the mundane responsibilities that a human body is expected to perform.
My advice to him is to spend a considerable amount of time looking within and finding
the thing that at the moment it seems to him he most wants to do, whatever it may be.
On the physical plane now I'm speaking, I'm speaking in terms of work, in terms of job,
type of thing. And whatever he decides to make a vow within himself that for five years
he will remain with it. Five years. And stay with it. And in that time, to not indulge
in mind fantasies of what he would like to be doing, but to keep the power. Do you see
what we're aiming at, that if he can keep himself in a compact situation, if he has promised
that he, himself, if he has promised himself that he will remain in a certain place for
five years, he will draw to him the concentrated, compact consciousness that is the primary
prerequisite before you can even begin the most elementary stages of a spiritual quest.
And you see, this gentleman doesn't have it.
And one of the reasons he doesn't have it is his continual moving from place to place and thing to thing and person to person
and thought to thought and fantasy to fantasy.
He needs to become compact.
So, five years, one job.
That's it.
And no fantasies.
Please make this very clear to him.
It will not do him any good to stay in one thing for five years, gritting his teeth with
the determination of "I hate this, I don't want to be here, I wish I were doing A, B
and C."
The idea is to get his mind so concentrated on what he is doing that he would be able to
perceive the joy that is inherent in any occupation.
In any occupation.
is inherent in it, a spontaneous joy, a spontaneous enjoyment, participation, all things are possible
in any position, you see. So this would be our advice to him, a five-year commitment
and see if he can work for it. Now make no other statements around it, for example, please
don't say, "Five years commitment to one woman," for example. That would be extremely unwise.
And do not in any way please stress disciplines, like whatever he chooses to do on that periphery
is really not important. It will be sufficient unto the day if he will be able to do this
one thing of finding the spontaneous joy and creation and creative response in one job
for five years.
Yes, yes.
Now the woman has a question.
What would help her to overcome her oversensitive reactions
when negativity is directed at her?
Well, that's a good question because it's plagued her for many years.
Basically, she needs to understand one thing.
The negativity that comes from others to her is essentially not terribly important.
She tends to feel that things are more important than they really are.
Someone will say something to her, the person who says it to her is perhaps being very casual
about it and doesn't even think about it in the next five minutes, but she herself
has taken it in and broods on it and worries on it and so forth, you see.
Now, this is an old habit and can easily be broken and it must be broken
and it's in the process of being broken.
And the step that she has to take is the minute that she feels,
for example, someone says something to her that hurts,
makes her feel unworthy or depressed or inferior or there are many things that one could feel.
And by the way this applies to many people and not just to the woman herself.
The first thing, the first thing that should cross her conscious mind is "I choose not
to dwell on this."
Then, if she still feels the pull of that kind of...
because all it is is an indulgence in a negative kind of a thought situation,
then all she has to do is to say, "I choose to dwell in..."
and then pick something else, whatever is most joyful for her.
In her case, most definitely, just to choose to dwell in the presence of God,
which is very much what she does most of the time, is try to feel, even to the physical feeling of the God Presence around her.
She is moving into that kind of an awareness and is able often to feel the pulsations of the higher forces directly around her.
And if she will just make a conscious choice of saying, "I don't choose that," you see,
see, and then not to continue to think on these things, to drop it and to select, to choose
this other and to move into those feelings. I think she will find in, I would predict
in weeks, not months, in weeks, excuse me, that she would be able to drop that. And I
would suggest to other people who might have access to this data, the same process. Each
time something comes into your consciousness, you have a choice. You can take it in and
become obsessed with it and deal with it and worry about it, or you can say, "I choose
something else," and select whatever it is that brings light to your mind rather than
darkness. It's simply a choice. If a symbol of the void is beautiful, that should be dwelt
on. If the light or the cross or the Christ or the whatever, those symbols should be...
that is what they're for. Those symbols of the world are there for you to use, and that's
That's the kind of time that we ask you to use them.
We would also like your opinion on the Course in Miracles that she's following at this time.
Well, I think it's a wonderful thing. And I highly encourage her in all aspects of it.
Now, it is not for everyone, and she must be aware that there will be much criticism,
In ensuing years, there will be a controversy over this Course,
because it professes, as you know, to come from the Christ himself,
and there will be a great deal of controversy.
Now, she has thought about this herself,
and the answer for her is,
I believe you're all aware of the fact that the Course says that it is Jesus himself that speaks.
And, in a sense, this is absolutely true.
There is nothing in that Course that does not come from the highest source of the Christ vibration.
Now, it is really not important to say, "Does it come from the persona that we consider to be Jesus?"
There is nothing that is in that course that does not reflect the highest, the highest
that the Christ as personified by Jesus has to offer.
And she can go into it without any trepidation whatsoever.
Many people will not understand it.
I do not encourage her to talk about it.
I think that she should, especially around very orthodox Christians, should make absolutely
no mention of it.
They will do what they can to undermine it, and she should just let them go on their way,
because everybody needs what they need, and this is a very definite response to her soul
call for guidance.
And I use it often to connect with her, because she believes in it.
You see, she responded immediately to the deep truths that lie there, and she is able to
throw out the extraneous and to dwell on the essence of it.
And this is why for her it is so very vital that she continue with it, because she is
able out of all the pages and pages to pick those kernels that are the highest and to begin
to believe what it is that she needs to believe, that she is, you see, a part of this whole
drama of God. So yes, by all means.
You mentioned the persona of Jesus. If what you said about our changing constantly, the
persona of Jesus no longer exists, but the Christ would exist.
The persona of Jesus is in a sense so much more powerful, so much more radiant, so much
more awe-inspiring than it was two thousand years ago, that were we to meet him on the
earth plane today as they did then, it is doubtful that any physical vehicle could encompass.
I mean, he too has moved to realms, you see.
There is no end.
It is hard to explain, but there is no end to the capacity to expand into the total Godness.
Did you want me to stop?
There is no end to the infinite, and the persona of Jesus in the two thousand years since he
left the earth plane has continued to radiate and to grow in light and wisdom that those
who tune into him now are given so much more than they were two thousand years ago.
Do you see?
Because he himself has moved through, he is so much closer to the totality of things than
he was then, that his gift throughout the centuries increases. You see, it's so funny, the world
says two thousand years ago and puts him as an old archaic form. In truth, he is so much
more now than he ever was that he is an even greater gift to mankind now than he was then,
you see, and it is so opposite. He is the source that I draw to. He is the source that I look
to for my wisdom. And in my states of exaltation, I do my very best to reach the heights that
He was a two thousand years ago, you see, and he has so far transcended that now that someone
like myself could walk the plane, the earth plane now, and be considered on that vibrational
level, but not him.
If he came back in the form that he was, I mean that he is now, well, we won't even speculate
about that.
Are there any questions in the room?
Yes, I have a question.
Would you speak on the subject of the second coming of the Christ?
Well, again, there's been an awful lot of misinformation filtered through various peoples on this subject.
And it is true that he will come again, and blessed is the world that this is so.
Now, when we say "He will come again," it is so hard to put into words, but as I try
to explain, the physical vehicle that walked the earth two thousand years ago, it was a